if you do this you'll set yourself up
for seo failure hey everyone i'm neil
patel and today i'm going to break down
how you'll never rank for specific types
of keywords and how to stop setting
yourself up for failure
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel if you're on
youtube click the alert notification
look it's tempting to go after high
volume keywords those are the keywords
that everyone wants to rank for credit
cards auto insurance you know
seo online marketing dog food
but those keywords more often than not
have really high search difficulty look
the basic requirements to rank for these
cores is you need a lot of high quality
backlinks and a high domain authority
this won't be achieved by a small
website or a new website or even if
you've just been doing seo for a short
period of time even if your website is
really really old you need a few years
to reach that level to go after
some of these big keywords and even for
some of them it takes way more than a
few years
by the time you've accomplished that
you've already grown even more and your
competitors have even grown even more
than that so then it just becomes harder
and harder because as you're ready to
target some of those high authority
keywords your competitors more likely
grown so it's a really bad approach so
you're pretty much wondering hey neil if
i can't go after those keywords anytime
in the near future what should i do
well instead you need to build your
website authority
gradually by dominating long tail
variations of the head terms
and you'll gradually be able to climb up
and go after more competitive keywords
and the more relevant your website
becomes for those niche terms the
greater chances you have of going after
those test terms here's what i mean if
you go after the term seo right
it's really hard but if you have to if
you go after
how to get started in seo what is seo
and you have to go after the long tail
variations of the term
and then google knows your website's not
just on seo but only you know digital
marketing seo online marketing email
marketing seo paid ads etc then google
knows that your website is around this
niche
so then when you try to eventually go
after the term seo or online marketing
even if you don't have the highest
authority you're more likely to rank
because you've done really really well
in that niche not just from the eyes of
google but from the eyes of consumers
out there
so what i want you to do to find the
right long tail variations and this is
going to be a really short tutorial
video because i just want you to go and
do this tactic if you do it
you'll do really well
type in the keywords that you want to go
after you already know the head terms
seo or dog food or credit cards whatever
it may be type it into uber suggest go
to the keyword ideas list when you go to
the keyword ideas list or keyword ideas
report it'll show you all the keywords
are related to that phrase it'll show
you based on questions comparisons
related keywords ideas so and all this
will then end up saying hey now you got
a list of maybe
500 keywords a thousand keywords
sometimes in many cases uber says will
show you literally up to a million
keywords but you don't have the time to
filter out all those keywords
look to see for that button that shows
you which keywords you can actually rank
on page one for click
on that keyword ideas report and then
put in your url it'll then filter all
the keywords that you have a possibility
to rank for today not next month not six
months from now not in a year from now
but literally today
those are the keywords that you want to
go after first
and i want you to go and create content
around those keywords
now that you have a list i want you to
group them so let's say i'm creating an
article on seo i may see some keywords
on on-page seo some about backlinks some
about site speed and you want to group
them together so group all the keywords
related to one specific topic like in my
case on on-page seo group them together
group the other keywords related to
backlinks together group the third
category related to site speed together
i may even group another
keywords related to let's say content
creation and you can find
different groups and once you have that
group go and create an article around
that topic and create article that's
better than your competitors i'm not
saying that you need more words on a
page or you need more visual images or
include videos what you want to do to
figure out how to create a better
article than your competitors is take
those keywords within that group and
google them
who's on page one what do they include
in the article write that down not their
words but write down what they included
they include videos animated gifs did
they include step-by-step instructions
that teaches people how to get something
done
once you have your list
do it for all the terms related within
that category right because you have
these group of keywords literally google
each and every single one of them create
your list now you'll know what you need
to include in your article to help
people solve their problems right away
remember when someone searches for a
term they're looking for a solution to
the problem the quicker that you solve
it and the better that you solve it
versus the competitors the more likely
you are to outrank them
and then go and create your article on
once you've done that i want you to take
all the people
that already have articles related to
those keywords take their urls and put
it into the backlinks report and uber
suggests
that'll show you all the people linking
to your competitors hit up each and
every single one of those websites
linking to your competitors and ask them
to link to you and do a customized email
tell them how your article is better
more in depth what you offer that the
competitors did it why it benefits their
audience linking to you over the
competitors and when you do that a
portion of those people will link back
to you and the key is to hit up the
people linking to your competitors
because you already know that they link
to others in your space when you do this
you're more likely to rank and do better
and then eventually you'll build up the
authority and then you can go after the
head trips you just have to be patient
and follow the steps and that's how
you're going to rank really well today
and not wait six months to a year
if you need my team to just do this for
you check out my ad agency np digital if
you enjoy the article like it share it
tell people about it and leave a comment
below if you need any help